Real estate agents say Melbourne's property market has turned, with the eastern suburbs now experiencing boom sales conditions.

Other areas, including the inner south, the inner north and some bayside precincts, are also seeing the market pendulum swing strongly towards vendors. Buyers are confronting a tight market with less stock than last year, more competition and lenders aplenty offering cheap finance.

Hodges Beaumaris director Michael Cooney said on Saturday buyers believed if they missed out on a property the next one would be dearer. 

"The market has turned again," he said.

"Last year we had higher volumes and 70 per cent and 80 per cent success rates at auction. But we now have a new battlefront where buyers are trying to negotiate prior to properties being released to the market. Buyers are trying to get to the agent before and find out what is coming up. They want to know the vendor's selling price is now so they can be the only person negotiating."

On Saturday, the Domain Group posted a clearance rate of 79 per cent from 913 auctions. The strong result comes on the back of a roaring month for sales, with an average weekend clearance rate of 78 per cent recorded over the past four weeks.

Some market watchers say a boom occurs when clearance rates shoot above 80 per cent, others say it's above 85 per cent. A balanced market is one in which clearances are between 65 per cent and 75 per cent. 

Not all areas are equal, however. Daniel Wright, of hockingstuart, said his company notched up an 81 per cent clearance rate from 99 auctions on Saturday, but only 60 per cent of properties offered in the western suburbs sold. Sales in the southern suburbs were much brighter, with 90 per cent of stock selling.

Last weekend saw a city-wide 80 per cent clearance rate. But Domain Group senior economist Andrew Wilson said this result could have been skewed by low reporting by agents in the western suburbs.

"The west had the highest amount of listings last weekend, but it had the lowest proportion of reported sales results and a very low clearance rate," he said.

Dr Wilson said vendors were transacting in Melbourne's best market in four years, but the keenest buyer competition was in the east and the north-east.

Jellis Craig sold 85 per cent of 63 auction properties. Director Alastair Craig said international buyers had been acquiring many properties offered in Boroondara in recent weeks. The east was clearly in boom territory, he said.

That looks to be the case for prestige property generally.

"We have sold 11 properties in the last 10 days for a total of $61 million – 40 per cent of them to international buyers," said Rob Vickers-Willis, of Abercromby's, which specialises in $3 million to $10 million sales.

Marshall White, another company active in these council zones, reported a 92 per cent clearance rate on Saturday.

The big question going forward is: will vendors now push up reserve prices?

Nelson Alexander sales director Arch Staver said "in a boom market you can be guaranteed of one thing – vendor reserves start to go up".

"It doesn't always work. Buyers are pretty astute and they can really punish vendors," he said.

The market will be forcefully tested again next weekend, when 1363 metropolitan auctions are scheduled.